---
layout: post
title: Why We Keep Choosing Django
published: true
---
There are half a dozen programming languages and dozens of attractive frameworks out there, but in most cases we end up using Django as our web framework. Considering that we have half a dozen projects in active developement, we can't afford to pick the wrong tools. So, why is it that Django beats the competition?
## Unique Qualities of Django 

First, let's look what makes Django unique among the dozens and dozens of web development frameworks out there. 

Learning Web Development with Django Is Easy 

Python and django are easy to learn. Tens of high quality books are available for free online.  Since Python and Django have been around for a while, newcomers easily find a learning path that can take them from zero to hero within a few months. This is as true for people who've never written a line of code as those who have experience with other languages and frameworks.    

Django's Documentation Is Second to None 

    When you Google Django-related questions, the official documentation is usually at the top of the results. This is quite unique to Django. In fact, the documentation is so good that by actually reading it, a novice programmer can learn new things not only about Django but about web development. 

Django's Batteries Are Really Good 

    60-90% of what we do on a regular basis uses built-in Django tools: the admin panel, manage.py commands, Django ORM, email, etc. In cases when we need something that Django doesn't offer, there's often a library that does what we want. There are thousands of high-quality django apps and libraries out there. 

Django and Python Communities Are Mature 

Python and Django communities have been lead by great leaders for decades. The leadership has been strong, sensible, and fun. As a result, the Python and Django communities are so energetic and mature at the same time.  

 

 

Real Benefits of Using Django 

Now, let's discuss in specifics how Django benefits us: 

We Save Time 

    Developers who use Django and do it well, save hundreds of priceless hours in a single project. They save time because they don't have to reinvent the wheel. Code that's not written is not tested and debugged. 

    Programmers save time because of Django, and this usually means that the product can go out earlier. This also means that we can iterate more quickly. In short, chances of a business succeeding is higher when Django is used. 

We Develop Ourselves 

Many regular people(including me) choose to become a developer because it is to easy to learn programming using Python. Many programmers become web developers because it's easy to make web applications using Django. But, our self-development doesn't stop there. By simply using Django and learning about it's included batteries, we learn about how common problems are solved. And since Django offers the best solution to most problems, we get a high quality education. The range of things you'll learn by simply using Django is very wide:   

    Organization of apps and modules   

    Organization of settings and configurations  

    Architectural and design patterns like MVC , signals, etc.  

    Important security issues 

    etc., etc. 

We Save Money 

    Since Django saves developers' time, business saves money. Without Django, many budgets would become unacceptable, many MVPs would be much less interesting. Thanks to Django, we do more with less resources. 

 
